Hello and welcome back to the course in Python programming.
How did you go of the previous tutorial.
Did you have a chance to play around with the weasel's nations and create subplots for different matrices
that we have in the data set.
And I would be very curious to know if you found any interesting insights into the data.
So today what are you going to do.
We're going to create our very first function that's going to be a very interesting tutorial so let's
call it function or our own function more like it.
What I wanted to mention before Istar is that first of all here you can see that some of the things
on these charts are a bit blurry.
That is because I am zoomed in to my browser so that we can see the code better.
So if I zoom out you'll see you know there we go.
So if I imagine you can see that the chairs are actually very crisp and clear and when you look at the
code like this and this is what you should probably be seeing on your machine you'll see that it's all
lines up very nicely.
It fit a lot of it fits on the chart so on the screen so it doesn't look like there is so much going
on like when we're zoomed in.
It looks a bit cluttered sometimes but that is the tradeoff that we have in order to be able to see
the color code clear and for turtles still zoom back in but not as much.
So usually it's zoomed in like that but I'm going to zoom in out a bit because we are going to code
quite a lot and I want us to be able to see more and hopefully you can still see the code this way.
All right.
So our own function.
What are we going to do and why do we need this tutorial.
What is it all about.
Well as you have probably noticed while you were experimenting.
Now we have this code it's ready yes.
And what we need to do is replace the different matrix every single time.
Or remove the certain number of players if we want less players we'll just remove players from here
.
So let's just take this show you again so will copy it here and let's say we want the games but we only
want them for the first second and the ninth or the zeros the first and the ninth.
And so if we run this now then we'll get less right.
So but basically every single time we have to recreate a lot of code reuse a lot of code.
How can we simplify this process because we are redoing a lot of work.
How can we make this process easier for ourself.
That is where functions come into play.
We're going to create our own function which is actually going to be like a wrapper for all of this
code.
And inside that function we'll just posit some parameters to tell it what we want is output how we want
to limit our selection and then we will do all that work for us and just give us a chart as output.
That sounds pretty cool doesn't it.
So we're going to now create that function.
So how do you create a function in Python which create a function.
It's actually very simple all you have to do is type in D F for define my plot will be the name of a
function as you can see it's already highlighted in different color and then we'll just give it empty
brackets for now because then later we'll specify what parameters we want to pass the function in those
brackets and then call on.
And just as with loops and if statements and other indentation or requiring syntax in Python you can
see that here we've got an invitation that means that the body of the function needs to be coded in
this part.
So I'm just going to run that for now to make some space.
It just makes space again.
So in fact let's copy that.
Rid of this one could be here.
All right so there it is.
And what do we want to do.
Well basically we want to take this code that we have in a way and put it in here.
Ideally you.
And let's put a tap here.
But what we can see is to start off if we can see that here we've got zero to nine.
And here is there's not so there is a couple of things are changing in every single line and that's
first of all this number then the marker and the color and this number or so forth things change in
every line.
But otherwise each line is identical.
So how would we know how would the function know what if we want to only identify or visualize certain
players so we don't want to visualize all the players we just want to visualize some of the players
in our data set.
So how would the function know.
Well we would pass a parameter would tell the function which players we want to visualize.
Then we would need a loop here.
So how we're just trying to assess if we can put a loop here that will create this code for us to run
this code iteration by duration.
And that way it will save us from having to rewrite these lines.
So basically we can see that these lines are identical except for these four things.
How can you put them tell them.
Well we can do that pretty simple so we're just going to remove all of these.
Right.
I will just keep one and we'll just put a for loop for I.
I mean we don't have a list of players but we're going to need one so we're going to say player list
colon.
And then this will be our inside out and not a worry we going to fix this up all right now.
First of all is a player.
So what is that going to be.
Obviously that the function doesn't know that in advance the way we're going to run this function is
we're going to actually call it later on we're going to say.
So here we want to just say something like my Plaut and I want to visualize let's say for example I
want to visualize and pass a list of players that we want to have a look at that say Kobe Bryant LeBron
James and others said Derrick Rose.
So ideally we just want to run the function like that.
We pass the list of players to the function and then it does all the work for us and just creates viz.
.
Right.
That would be the best outcome for us so how do we do that.
Obviously we need this player list to be a parameter for the function so my plot takes a parameter which
is this list.
And then now we need to utilize these players so we know that II is going to iterate over the player
this is going to it's going to be Kobe Bryant there's going to be LeBron James is going to be Derrick
Rose.
How can we use that so we have a zero so we need actually.
But we I is going to be a name so we can actually instead of saying I hear we can say name so a name
in player list so the name is going to have the name how do we go from the name to the index of the
player.
Well very simple.
We already know that we have if we go to the very top where you know there we have this wonderful dictionary
here for players and we know that from this picture we kind of based on the name we can find the index
of Kobe Bryant's 0 0.
LeBron James his index to Derrick Rose's index 8.
So using this dictionary we can get to the player's index and then pass it on this to the Matrix so
as to that will say player dictionary.
And instead in here we're going to specify the name so that the current value of the iteration.
We know that name in this loop is iterating over these values that are passed to player list.
And so this is going to be Kobe Bryant's so called Bryant and here and this is going to be co-brand
index and there's going to be LeBron James and it's going to be Derrick Rose's index.
All right that's good.
We're going to leave the color for now and the marker for now we're just going to leave them like that
and we'll do the same thing here for label.
We don't need to actually we can we could do exactly the same thing we could say the name of the player
.
So let's say Kobe Bryant then get his index which would be zero.
And then from that index get the name of the player which would be Kobe Bryant that would be a bit of
just doing like the same thing twice instead of that we can just say name here and that will be easier
because we already know the name which is Kobe Bryant LeBron James or Derrick Rose.
So if we run that we've just create a function and if we run a plot you'll see that we have created
the lovely lovely plot for our function right.
So or our function created love a play for us.
The only drawback here is that the colors and the markers haven't been fixed up right so the colors
and the markers are all the same for all players.
So even if I add more players it will use the same colors and markers and that's because every single
time this loop is running we're using the same color black and using the same marker Yes and that is
something we definitely need to fix up.
All right.
And so to quickly recap on what we did this time we basically just created a plot function which has
a loop with a variable or iterative variable name which moves through the list of players that were
passed to the function.
So here once we call the function we pass a list of players names of players.
And based on that a list so name takes the values of this list one by one.
So let's say at the start asked Kobe Bryant what happens is we look up Kobe Bryant in the dictionary
we get A's zero because he's his index is zero.
And that means that 0 is then passed to the game's matrix and that gives us the roll for that player
for Kobe Bryant which is row number 0 and then color black line style marker marker size label name
.
Kobe Bryant is given here because the name is still Kobe Bryant.
And so this line is added to our plot.
Right so it's out.
I don't know I think it's it's one sided plot.
Good.
OK.
Then this loop moves into the next iteration the name becomes LeBron James then for the ball on James
what happens is we go to the dictionary then name LeBron James Fost what we get is the result is the
number one because LeBron James is indexing on matrices as one then that index has past games.
Therefore we get the roll which represents LeBron James as games.
Row number one of that matrix.
The color is black lines style markers all the same label is also changed to the name which is LeBron
James and therefore we can see that label over here.
And this line is added to our plot and finally the same thing happens for Derrick Rose.
So once again the name is passed over here so name iterates iterates over onto Derrick Rose that's the
next step of the loop.
This becomes their Crose dictionary brings up based on their Crosas name brings up the number 8 because
they're Crosas index in all of matrices is 8 and then Games returns rhône number 8 which is associated
with Derrick Rose the colors black line style marker marker size label is just given the name of Derrick
Rose over there and that's all you can see Derrick Rose.
And this line is added to A-plot beautiful and then after all of that is done then the legend is plotted
over here the ticks are shown as the seasons and then the plot is shown as simple as that.
So that's what this simple call replaces all of those lines of code.
So as Guess he said is a lot of space and a lot of coding and it's very replicable now.
So we can very easily replicate this code.
And as discussed the next time we're going to learn how to fix up these colors and markers and from
there we will have a fully functional or fully working function can wait to see you next time.
Until then happy coding.